so i don't know if you guys heard this
but um there was recently
i think like as of this weekend
so
china
actually
passed a law that limits online video
games to three hours a week for young
people so what this law basically says
so for those of you who don't know
um
when you play an online video game in
china this is correct me if i'm wrong i
mean i've talked to people in china and
stuff but this is my understanding
is that you have like a national id that
you you know anytime you sign up for a
game like you link your account in-game
to your national id
and so then what they what they've
essentially done is they've like
instituted this this law that you are
not allowed to play games like monday
through thursday at all so all of your
accounts are linked to this national id
and so they like don't let you play
those games
and then on friday saturday and sunday
you're allowed to play i think one hour
a day and they may even have restricted
it from eight to nine pm you also get to
play one hour a day on holidays so china
recently passed this law
um and so we're gonna talk a little bit
about it you know why i think this is
happening and then also like you know
what to kind of expect
going forward so the first thing to
understand is that
um video game addiction is like a big
problem and we don't quite understand
what the relationship between video game
the increase in playing video games
and a group of social movements is
so like i mentioned earlier you know
there's stuff going on in lots of
different countries so in in you know
the us and europe we'll call them neat
so these are people in not an employment
education or training in south america
they're called ninis so nitro bajo and
estudiar people who are not working or
studying um
in in japan you know i think they call
them hikoko moris
and in china actually recently there's
been like a big movement called laying
flat which is that there's a group of
young people who uh are sort of like not
engaging in like the work culture so
china also recently passed um their
supreme court made a ruling that the 996
work culture which is 9 a.m to 9 00 p.m
six days a week is actually illegal so
there's this big culture and if you're
chinese you know feel free to correct me
this i'm sort of hearing the second hand
from
colleagues of mine and friends of mine
in china
that you know
there's there's sort of like
young people there are just not like not
interested in working like they're not
interested in you know grinding all day
spending six days a week 12 hours a day
for like a small amount of money and
then like you know getting on this this
you know stair stepper of like walking
every day and getting nowhere and
eventually getting promoted and stuff
there used to be a lot of you know pride
that people took in this kind of
sacrificial work culture um you see that
kind of that that sacrificial work
culture in japan as well you see it in
the united states you see it in
residency for sure where people are like
you know i worked 100 hours a week and
it was like it was terrible but man i
survived and like you know there's like
this really like machismo kind of like
culture where the harder you work and
the more you deprive yourself like the
more
you know credentials you get the harder
you train the more badass you are
there's this kind of like sentiment
right
but what's what we're seeing just across
the world
is that
younger people right so we're talking
like starts with the millennials and gen
z are just not signing into it and so
people have hypothesized that video
games are a big part of this i do think
that they are a part of that but i think
that what's happening is people are
demonizing video games
for
essentially like a lot of other societal
problems
so you know our video games kind of
addictive
yeah absolutely and we're going to talk
about that in a second but i think that
what people here are missing is that
there's a confluence of events that gets
young people
uninterested in participating in society
and then when i choose not to
participate in society because i don't
get paid enough i don't get enough
respect i don't enjoy my job it's not
fulfilling when all of those things
happen
right i'm i've tons of the student loan
debt
when all of those kinds of things happen
then i choose not to participate in
society and when i choose not to
participate in society what do i do with
all my time and so what i end up doing
with all my time is like video games
right so i think that there is an
addictive component for sure which we'll
get to in a second but i think
essentially what's happening is that
there's a great deal of unrest with
young people right so people are
concerned about climate change they're
concerned about wealth inequality
they're concerned about all this kind of
stuff which are very valid concerns and
so people are taking a step back and
saying you know what i'm just not gonna
play this game and what they turn to is
video games instead there's also really
interesting i'm gonna try to dig up this
reference for you guys but i saw
um you know this is a paper that a buddy
of mine at harvard business school sent
me about
young people's
uh young people entering the workforce
is at an all-time low so historically
like in the last hundred years
especially young men are at an all-time
low for entering the workforce so it
used to be that the demographic that
entered the the workforce and the most
stable solid demographic of people kind
of going into work or like young men
like men between the ages of 18 and 25
and for the first time like that number
is like remarkably low and people are
trying economists are trying to figure
out you know what's the reason for this
chances are it's multifactorial but i
think what we see is that people are not
entering the workforce and they end up
playing video games like what's going on
there what's the cause what's the effect
i imagine it's like somewhat circular
and reinforcing right so video games
make it harder for people to enter the
workforce and when people are not
interested in entering the workforce
they end up playing video games
but i think what you see is a lot of
institutions and governments and policy
makers
what they're doing is they see
a bunch of young people playing video
games and they say that's the problem
that's what you see right it's like the
tip of the iceberg
above the water but it's not
what they don't ask themselves is why
are these young people playing video
games like sure they're playing video
games but what's the root cause what's
driving the behavior all they're sort of
focusing on is the behavior itself
and this is something you know you learn
if you work in addiction psychiatry is
like you can and oh my god i'm about to
go off on a tangent but you can take an
alcoholic and you can send them to rehab
for 60 days where there's no alcohol
available and this is the business model
for like half of the rehabs out there
they're like we're going to take you to
this awesome spa-like place where we're
not you're not going to have a choice to
drink because there's no alcohol
available so what we're going to do is
remove the problem from your life and
that's what we're going to call a rehab
and these rehabs are fantastic because
they don't address the underlying issues
they don't address the drivers of
behavior they just restrict the behavior
artificially and so people go to the
rehabs they get sober for 60 days they
feel awesome and then they go home and
then alcohol is available and what do
they do they relapse
and when they relapse that's fantastic
because you had such a good experience
at that spa that charged you seventy
thousand dollars
i guess i need to go back because i had
it i was so good so it's this awesome
business model that that you know
encourages temporary sobriety and repeat
customers
and so what happens is i'm seeing a lot
of these like policy level changes where
people are sort of targeting video games
as the problem and it's definitely a
contributor don't get me wrong
but i think it's sort of like that's
that's the equivalent of taking an
alcoholic and and sticking them into
rehab and preventing them from sort of
like playing games
right and that that amount of
restriction could help it probably will
help but it's not addressing the
underlying causes
and i think part of the the other kind
of interesting thing here so i think
what's going to happen is that the the
law will pass and hopefully it'll help
some but i think two things will happen
until you when you have a bunch of
gamers who want to play video games
they'll find a way to play video games
okay
so the first thing that a buddy of mine
was explaining to me is that you know
often times like like you have a
national id right so it's like linked to
like your driver's license or whatever
like so you have a national id then
you're a miner you're a 16 year old kid
like what the 16 year old kid is going
to do is go they're going to go with
their grandpa's national id and they're
just going to sync that with all their
accounts and then it'll lift all the
restrictions they'll keep playing games
anyway
it's not hard to find someone's like
national id to link because grandpa's
not playing video games like you've got
grandpa you've got grandma you've got
mom you've got dad you've got your great
uncle you've got a bunch of people out
there who aren't playing video games and
you've got a bunch of national ids so
you're just going to keep playing and i
think that's what's going to happen so
as long as the driver for the behavior
is there you can try to like suppress it
right like you can try to restrict we
see this in addiction as well where like
you know
you know there are kids who smoke pot
and their parents don't want them to
smoke pot they're addicted to pot so
what do they do like they find a way to
smoke pot chat they find a way to sneak
out of their their house
you know put a ladder outside their
window climb down their friend meets
them in their backyard they pass them a
joint like they find a way to do the
behavior
so i think it's an interesting
intervention i think it's kind of an
authoritarian approach that doesn't
address some of the underlying problems
i'm not surprised that the the passage
of this legislation came now
because laying flat in china has been
growing so much so like people have
noticed right so i heard about it right
and i'm not like in china so i think
that there's a there's an increasing
amount of like
frustration and dissatisfaction with
young people and so like policymakers
are looking at that and they're saying
oh video games are the problem right
it's these
freaking video games like these stupid
video games we see this from parents as
well in our parent program where like
you know parents will come in and
they'll say like how do i get my kid to
stop playing video games because like
the video game is the problem the video
game is like the abs you know that's the
real problem like how do i get them to
stop
and what we do when we work with these
parents is we like hopefully the ones
that work with us begin to realize like
the video game is a symptom it's not the
root cause
and that if you really want to get your
kid to stop playing video games and you
want to fight them constantly for it
what you need to do is like get them on
the same page and help them understand
how video games are a problem and
address the underlying issues sometimes
it means getting your kid into therapy
sometimes it means helping your kids
succeed in ways that like they're
struggling with right sometimes it means
being being like okay do you like or do
you feel or you're overweight and people
make fun of you like what do you think
about like going to jiu jitsu class
would you be down to do that and then
the kids are like yeah actually like
that'd be pretty cool and so then like
the parent encourages them and it
involves dealing with the underlying
drivers of behavior instead of
restriction
and when we do that it works out really
really well so i think what's happening
is this this measure is somewhat
reactionary i think we're going to see a
lot of people bypassing it because
that's what gamers are going to do
they're going to find a way to play
games if they really want to
um and at the same time i think it's
also like
in response to a growing
dissatisfaction that young people have
and they're sort of blaming the video
game for it now speaking of blaming
video games i'm not surprised that this
legislation passed for a couple of other
reasons and i think we're going to see
more stuff like this actually all over
the world because the truth is that
video game developers are actively
trying to make their video games more
addictive and more damaging to people so
like what people are trying to do right
so like like you know mmo makers for
example are trying to find ways to get
people to play the mmo for longer and
longer and longer right like you want
that lifetime customer like you want
people to play your mmo for a decade and
charge them their 15 bucks a month
and so game developers are actively
trying to make the games more addictive
so i think that you know if you look at
some of these um online like arena games
right like fortnight and stuff like that
what you actually find i was it was
really interesting i was trying to like
figure out why kids like playing these
games so much and i think what they've
done that makes it really interesting is
they've affected the rate
of encounters right so they do this very
very well
so they make it so that you can never
relax in a game of fortnite because you
never know when you're going to
encounter someone
and they shrink the arena so that like
you know once the player count kind of
dies down every few minutes you're gonna
run into someone so you need to be
constantly paying attention to the arena
like you have to always be like paying
attention but it never gets to the point
where there's like a cons it's not
actually constant it's like a random
encounter right so like on in a six
minute period you may encounter three
people in the first two minutes or you
may encounter one person at one minute
and one person at five minutes so
they've done a really really good job of
like engineering the situation that is
very addictive for the brain and keeps
people really really excited to play
because you can never really relax and
encounters are not so common that they
become like boring right so if you think
about like grinding mobs in an mmo like
there's a lot of like stability to that
whereas in some of these online like
battle arenas like what you essentially
wind up with is like this kind of really
interesting random encounter schedule
which is consistent enough to where you
can never relax and that's actually very
addictive for your brain
and i'm seeing like growing amounts of
dangerous unrest within parents and i
think that if video game developers are
not careful and they continue to make
more and more addictive games which i
think they're going to do
what we're going to wind up with is like
a cigarette kind of situation where the
negative impact of games is so profound
that you're going to have governments
like china it's gonna start with china
but it'll happen elsewhere too mark my
words you're gonna have parent groups
that rise up and will be like calling
their congressmen and stuff and saying
like we want you to ban this kind of
game
as the addictive potential of games
grows what's going to happen is more
gamers are going to get addicted and
more people are going to start to think
it's a problem and then what what will
probably happen is people will come down
hard on the gaming industry
and the gaming industry may fight sort
of like the you know the tobacco
industry did in terms of saying oh no
they're not addictive and stuff like
that and they'll even find people like
myself who will say like hey there are
positive effects of video games they'll
find people like myself who will say hey
like you know find the root causes
because i actually believe that stuff i
do think games are addictive and i
believe that they're if you really want
to conquer addiction it's not about
restricting the substance it's about
protecting you know the underlying lying
psychological drivers right that's true
really have to address
but i think if we see this trend we're
going to see this a lot more because as
games get more addictive and as more
lives get ruined
like governments parents and societies
like won't stand for it
and i think that
you know i don't know how this is going
to affect you know 10 cents
tencent is a major video game developer
in or publisher or whatever company in
china so i don't know how it's gonna
affect their bottom line i saw you know
one figure that said that like you know
their income comes from three percent of
their income comes from minors and
ninety-seven 97 comes from non-minor so
it may not affect their bottom line but
i think it's like it's just the
beginning
and so if we're not careful like as an
industry as a whole and we do not
support
the mental health of our
of gamers
like you're going to see more
regulations like this and parents are
going to come out and they're going to
see like lawsuits and you'll see all
kinds of crap
you're going to see like congressional
hearings you're going to see it all
and so i think
you can the last thing that i'll share
with you guys is just a page from like
darwinian evolution
so you know a lot of the
the bacteria in our gut at one point of
infected us right so i don't know if you
guys know this but we have for every one
human cell you have in your body you
have 10
bacterial cells so you have 10 times as
many bacterial cells in your body as you
do
human cells
and so essentially what happens is that
when
when when you have an infectious agent
if you want to survive what you need to
do is become
symbiotic
and what that means is that you have to
deliver enough value to the organism to
where the organism doesn't try to kill
you it actually like is happy with you
hanging out because you bring something
to the table
and i think the video game industry and
games in general are
at a really crucial tipping point so
games do do good things they like they
were they were somewhat they helped us
somewhat be resilient during things like
the pandemic you know
people like my wife who like aren't
gamers like had trouble with social
interactions where i was like i'm gonna
play dota like that's what i did before
the pandemic is what i'm gonna do during
the pandemic it can actually help a lot
but if the gaming industry is not
careful what and we continue to make
more addictive games and more damaging
games games that bankrupt your player
base
what you're gonna actually get is a
situation where like you're gonna get a
darwinian response and then like people
are gonna say hey these things actually
hurt us more than help us and then
you'll start to fight against it whereas
i think really the direction that we
should move in because i love video
games is to become more symbiotic right
to like have video games be like a
healthy part of your life but not an
unhealthy part of your life for video
games to be a a way that you can
interact with people and like form
connections with like people and have
those connections be real have ways to
find support
and at the same time like
all of those positives like being
balanced by you know just a the right
amount of engagement and if we don't
like in the next five to ten years i
think we're going to see a lot more
legislation like this i don't usually
make predictions chat but i mean i'm
seeing it we're going to see a lot more
parents getting really really upset and
then like you know once the facebook
moms start going to town on something
like it can get bad real fast
so
you know i'm not surprised that china
passed the legislation i think it's like
a signal of things to come if the
industry continues moving in in the
direction that it is and at the same
time i think that the legislation is
sort of like addressing a small part of
what i view to be like a much bigger
problem
you